
Fetal erythroblastosis is a hemolytic anemia in the fetus (or the neonate, such as neonatal erythroblastosis) caused by transplacental transmission of maternal antibodies to fetal erythrocytes. The disorder in general occurs due to incompatibility between maternal and fetal blood, often by Rh0 (D) antigens. Diagnosis begins with prenatal screening of maternal antigens and antibodies and may require paternal screening, serial evaluation of maternal antibody titers and fetal studies. Treatment may involve intrauterine fetal transfusion or neonatal exanguinotransfusion. Prevention includes injection of Rh0 (D) immunoglobulin for Rh negative women.
Classically, fetal erythroblastosis results from Rh0 (D) incompatibility, which can occur when a woman with Rh negative blood is pregnant with a Rh positive man and conceives a fetus with Rh positive blood, which sometimes leads to hemolysis.
Other fetomaternal incompatibilities that can cause fetal erythroblastosis involve the antigenic systems Kell, Duffy, Kidd, MnSS, Lutheran, Diego, Xg, P, Ee and Cc, and of course, their antigens. Incompatibilities of AB0 groups do not cause fetal erythroblastosis.
Fetal erythrocytes normally move around the placenta near the maternal circulation throughout pregnancy. Movement is greater at the time of childbirth or at abortion. Movement of large volumes (e.g., 10 to 150 mL) is considered a major fetomatern hemorrhage; it can occur after trauma and sometimes after childbirth or abortion. In women with Rh negative blood who have a Rh positive fetus, fetal erythrocytes stimulate the production of maternal antibodies to Rh antigens. The larger the fetomatern hemorrhage, the more antibodies are produced. The mechanism is the same when another antigenic system is involved; however, Kell antibody incompatibility also directly suppresses the production of erythrocytes in the bone marrow.
Other causes of production of anti-RH maternal antibodies include injection of Rh-positive blood contaminated needles and inadvertent Rh-positive blood transfusion.
There are no complications during sensitization in the first pregnancy; however, in subsequent pregnancies, maternal antibodies cross the placenta and smooth the fetal erythrocytes, leading to anemia, hypoalbuminemia and possibly high expenditure heart failure or fetal death. Anemia stimulates the fetal bone marrow to produce and release immature erythrocytes (erythroblasts) into the fetal peripheral circulation (fetal erythroblastosis). Hemolysis causes elevated levels of indirect bilirubin in neonates and causes hyperbilirubinemic encephalopathy (kernicterus). In general, isoimmunization does not cause symptoms in pregnant women.
At the first prenatal visit, all women should receive an evaluation of the Rh type and factor, and anti-RH0 (D) antibodies and others that are formed in response to antigens that can cause fetal erythroblastosis. If the woman has Rh-negative blood and is positive for anti-RH0 (D) antibodies or any other antibody that causes fetal erythroblastosis, the father's blood and zygosity are determined (if paternity is safe). If the father has Rh-negative blood and does not have antigens corresponding to the antibodies identified in the mother, no further evaluation is needed. If you have Rh-positive blood or the antigen in question, the titers of maternal anti-RH antibodies should be measured. If titers are positive but lower than the laboratory-specific critical values (generally 1:8 to 1:32), they are measured every 2 to 4 weeks after 20 weeks. If critical values are exceeded, flow in the middle cerebral artery (ACM) of the fetus is measured at intervals of 1 or 2 weeks depending on the initial blood flow and the patient's history; the purpose is to detect high expenditure heart failure, indicating risk of anemia. Increased blood flow for gestational age should lead to consideration of early percutaneous umbilical cord sampling and intrauterine blood transfusion.
If paternity is reasonably safe and the father may be heterozygous for Rh0 (D), the Rh factor of the fetus must be determined. If the fetal blood is Rh positive or the condition is unknown and the flow in the MCA is high, it is likely to be due to fetal anemia.
When the Rh0 (D) state is uncertain, a cell-free fetal DNA test in maternal blood may be indicated to identify the RHD gene. This test is available in North America. Non-invasive tests for other genes (e.g. RHCE, KEL) are available in Europe.
If there are signs of fetal anemia, intravascular intrauterine transfusions can be administered to the fetus in an institution equipped for the care of high-risk pregnancies. Transfusions are performed every 1 to 2 weeks, usually up to 32 to 35 weeks. During this period, delivery may be recommended if there is continuous evidence of severe fetal anemia (based on blood flow in the ACM). The woman may continue delivery to the term if there is no evidence of severe fetal anemia based on the blood flow of the ACM. Corticoids should be given before the first transfusion if the pregnancy is > 24 weeks, possibly > 23 weeks.
“Childbirth should be as atraumatic as possible. Manual removal of the placenta should be avoided because it can force fetal cells into the maternal circulation.

Maternal sensitization and the production of antibodies due to Rh incompatibility can be prevented by giving the mother Rh0 (D) immunoglobulin. This drug contains high titers of anti-RH antibodies, which neutralize Rh-positive erythrocytes of the fetus. Since fetomatern transfer and the likelihood of sensitization are higher at the end of pregnancy, the drug is administered within 72 h of the termination of all pregnancies, whether by birth, caesarean section, abortions or treatments of an ectopic pregnancy. The standard dose is 300 mcg IM. A rosette test can be used to rule out severe fetomatern hemorrhage, and if positive, a Kleihauer-Betke test (acid elution) can measure the amount of fetal blood in the maternal circulation. If the test results indicate massive fetomatern hemorrhage (> 30 mL whole blood), additional injections are needed (300 mcg every 30 mL of whole fetal blood, up to 5 doses within 24 h).

If it is indicated only after childbirth or termination of pregnancy, treatment is sometimes ineffective because sensitization can occur early during pregnancy. Therefore, around 28 weeks, all pregnant women with Rh negative blood and no known history of sensitization should receive a dose of Rh0 (D) immunoglobulin. Some experts recommend a second dose if childbirth has not occurred by 40 weeks. Rh0 (D) immunoglobulin should also be given after any episode of vaginal bleeding and after amniocentesis or chorionic villi sampling.”
Pancreatic cancer, mainly ductal adenocarcinoma, affects about 53,670 cases and causes 43,090 deaths in the United States annually (1). Symptoms are weight loss, abdominal pain and jaundice. Diagnosis is based on computed tomography, endoscopic ultrasound and magnetic resonance imaging. Treatment consists of surgical resection, and adjuvant chemotherapy and radiation therapy. The prognosis is bad because the disease is usually advanced at the time of diagnosis.
Most pancreatic cancers are exocrine tumors that originate in ductal and acinous cells. Endocrine pancreatic tumors will be analysed later.
Adenocarcinomas of the exocrine pancreas originate from ductal cells with a frequency 9 times greater than from acinous cells; 80% is localized in the head of the gland. They appear at an average age of 55 years and are 1.5 to 2 times more common in men.
Prominent risk factors for pancreatic cancer include smoking, a history of chronic pancreatitis, obesity, being male, and being black. Inheritance plays a certain role. Consumption of alcohol and caffeine does not seem to be a risk factor.
Symptoms of pancreatic cancer, such as pain and weight loss, are nonspecific, leading to a later diagnosis by when the disease has spread. At diagnosis, 90% of patients have locally advanced tumors that have compromised retroperitoneal structures, spread to regional lymph nodes, or metastised to liver or lung.
Most patients have severe high abdominal pain, which usually radiates to the back. Weight loss is common. Adenocarcinomas of the head of the pancreas provoke obstructive jaundice (which can cause itching) in 80 -90% of patients. Cancer of the body and tail can clog the splenic vein, resulting in splenomegaly, gastric and esophageal varices, and digestive bleeding.
Cancer causes diabetes in 25 -50% of patients, leading to symptoms of glucose intolerance (e. g. polyuria and polydipsia). Also, in some cases, pancreatic cancer may interfere with the production of digestive enzymes by the pancreas (exocrine pancreatic insufficiency) and with the ability to break down food and absorb nutrients (malabsorption). This malabsorption causes bloating and gassing, and watery, greasy or fetid diarrhea, resulting in weight loss and vitamin deficiencies.
Preferred studies are helical abdominal CT with pancreatic technique, CPRM or endoscopic ultrasound. If these tests show unresectable disease or metastatic disease, a percutaneous needle aspiration of an accessible lesion may be considered to obtain a tissue diagnosis. If CT shows a potentially resectable tumor or no tumor, MRCP or endoscopic ultrasound may be performed to stage the disease or detect tumors not visible on CT. Patients with obstructive jaundice may undergo ERCP (endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography) as the first diagnostic procedure.
Routine laboratory tests must be performed. Increased alkaline phosphatase and bilirubin indicate obstruction of bile ducts or liver metastases. The CA 19-9 antigen associated with the pancreas may be used to monitor patients diagnosed with pancreatic carcinoma and to investigate those at high risk. However, this test is not sensitive enough or specific for systematic population detection. Elevated levels should decrease after successful treatment; further increases indicate progression. The levels of amylase and lipase are usually normal.
About 80 -90% of cancers are considered surgically unresectable at the time of diagnosis, due to metastases or invasion of important blood vessels. Depending on the location of the tumor, the preferred intervention for cancer resection is, most often, a Whipple procedure (duodenopancreatectomy). Currently adjuvant treatment with gemcitabine plus capecitabine (2) and external radiation therapy, which results in survival of around 40% at 2 years and 25% at 5 years. This combination is also used in patients with localized but unresectable tumors, and determines a median survival of about 1 year. Gemcitabine and capecitabine and perhaps other more modern drugs (e.g. gemcitabine, irinotecan, paclitaxel, oxaliplatin, carboplatin) may be more effective than 5-FU based chemotherapy, but no drug, alone or in combination, shows a clear superiority to prolong survival. Chemotherapy may be offered to patients with distant or hepatic metastases as part of a research program, but the prospect is very bad with or without this type of treatment, and some patients may choose not to accept it.
If an unresectable tumor is found in the operation and there is or is imminent gastroduodenal or bile duct obstruction, a double gastric and biliary bypass is usually performed to relieve the obstruction. In patients with unresectable lesions and jaundice, endoscopic placement of a biliary tutor relieves jaundice. However, surgical bypass should be considered in patients with unresectable lesions if life expectancy is > 6-7 months, due to complications associated with tutors.
Finally, most patients experience pain and die. Therefore, symptomatic treatment is as important as controlling the disease. Appropriate terminal care should be analysed (See also The Dying Patient).
Patients with moderate to severe pain should receive an opioid by mouth in appropriate doses to induce relief. Concern about addiction should not be an obstacle to effective pain control. In chronic pain, long-acting preparations (e. g. transdermal fentanyl, oxycodone, oxymorphone) are best. Percutaneous or surgical splenic (celiac) block effectively controls pain in some patients. In cases of intolerable pain, opiates administered by SC or IV infusion, epidural or intrathecal provide additional relief.
If palliative surgery or endoscopic placement of a biliary tutor does not relieve itching secondary to obstructive jaundice, pruritus may be treated with cholestyramine (4 g VO 1 to 4 times a day).
Exocrine pancreatic insufficiency is treated with capsules of porcine pancreatic enzymes (pancreolipasa). There are a number of commercial products available and the amount of enzyme per capsule varies. The necessary dose varies depending on the patient's symptoms, the degree of steatorrhea and the fat content of the diet. Typically, patients should take enough enzyme supplement to supply 25,000 to 40,000 IU of lipase before a typical meal and about 5,000 to 25,000 IU of lipase per snack. If the drug lasts longer (as in a restaurant), some of the tablets should be taken during the meal. The optimal intraluminal pH is 8; therefore, some doctors indicate a proton pump inhibitor or an H2 blocker 2 times a day. Diabetes mellitus should be strictly controlled.
